https://github.com/colxi/midi-parser-js/wiki/MIDI-File-Format-Specifications
http://www.lastrayofhope.co.uk/2009/12/23/midi-delta-time-ticks-to-seconds/2/
http://www.lastrayofhope.co.uk/2009/12/23/midi-delta-time-ticks-to-seconds/

Delta-Times 
The event delta time is defined by a variable-length value. It determines when an event should be played relative to the track's last event. A delta time of 0 means that it should play simultaneously with the last event. A track's first event delta time defines the amount of time to wait before playing this first event. Events unaffected by time are still preceded by a delta time, but should always use a value of 0 and come first in the stream of track events. Examples of this type of event include track titles and copyright information. The most important thing to remember about delta times is that they are relative values, not absolute times. The actual time they represent is determined by a couple factors. The time division (defined in the MIDI header chunk) and the tempo (defined with a track event). If no tempo is define, 120 beats per minute is assumed.

Time Division 
The third and final word in the MIDI header chunk is a bit more complicated than the first two. It contains the time division used to decode the track event delta times into "real" time. This value is represents either ticks per beat or frames per second. If the top bit of the word (bit mask 0x8000) is 0, the following 15 bits describe the time division in ticks per beat. Otherwise the following 15 bits (bit mask 0x7FFF) describe the time division in frames per second. Ticks per beat translate to the number of clock ticks or track delta positions (described in the Track Chunk section) in every quarter note of music. Common values range from 48 to 960, although newer sequencers go far beyond this range to ease working with MIDI and digital audio together. Frames per second is defined by breaking the remaining 15 bytes into two values. The top 7 bits (bit mask 0x7F00) define a value for the number of SMPTE frames and can be 24, 25, 29 (for 29.97 fps) or 30. The remaining byte (bit mask 0x00FF) defines how many clock ticks or track delta positions there are per frame. So a time division example of 0x9978 could be broken down into it's three parts: the top bit is one, so it is in SMPTE frames per second format, the following 7 bits have a value of 25 (0x19) and the bottom byte has a value of 120 (0x78). This means the example plays at 24 frames per second SMPTE time and has 120 ticks per frame.

Set Tempo 
This meta event sets the sequence tempo in terms of microseconds per quarter-note which is encoded in three bytes. It usually is found in the first track chunk, time-aligned to occur at the same time as a MIDI clock message to promote more accurate synchronization. If no set tempo event is present, 120 beats per minute is assumed. The following formula's can be used to translate the tempo from microseconds per quarter-note to beats per minute and back.
